So let's do that.
I'm going to stop what I have now.
And we're just gonna make a brand new app.
In my terminal here, so I go back out.
And what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna use a tool called NPX.
MPX should have came installed with NPM.
If you have, I think, I don't know what
version of node that NPX shipped with, but
if you have any relatively new
version of node in the last two years,
you probably have NPX.
If not, just upgrade your version of
node to like, I want to say the minimum,
I think I said it before which was 12,
you should be good there.
NPX just allows you to run global NPM
commands without actually installing those
commands on your computer,
it's pretty cool.
So we're gonna use one
called create-next-app.
And there's this framework called
Next.js that sits on top of React.
We're gonna talk more about it, but
there's gonna say NPX create next app.
And then you can give the folder a name.
In this case, I'm gonna call it myapp,
I'm gonna hit enter.
And as you can see right now, it's saying
it's installing React, React DOM and
something called next.
We'll let that install and
it's installing some eslint stuff,
some really cool things happening here.
Once that's done, I'm gonna cd into myapp.
And I'm gonna open this thing up.
So here we are in VS code.
And what the create next app does
is just a CLI that scaffolds out
a HelloWorld Next.js app for us.
And here are all the files.
And if you wanted to run this right
quick just to see what it is,
you can just type in
npm run dev like that.
And it'll start this up on 3000.
Go to check it out and you get this
beautiful Next.js React application.
I actually have previously taught
courses on Next.js here for the masters.
There's a intro one and
then like a more production focused one.
So if you really wanna dive deep into
Next.js, and you wanna get the details of
that, check those courses out because
I do cover that in a lot more detail.
Although, we will be getting intimate
with Next.js in this course as well.
So if you haven't used it, it's not a big
deal as long as you understand React,
you're gonna be fine.
It's not a dependency or
anything like that.
Next.js is just a bunch of
conventions on top of React,
it doesn't really do anything differently,
sweet.
So we have the helloworld Next.js app.
Let's get over to the code and just kind
of give you a tour what's happening here.
So first we have our pages directory,
which are gonna be all the pages and
the routes that we have.
We also have our API folder,
because Next.js is actually
a full stack framework.
So in this course, we won't actually be,
I mean, if you think about it,
there's multiple ways to make
a full stack app, right?
Like you have the traditional
full stack app from like 2012 or
something where you would
have a Python server or
a node server that's actually
serving the assets of your frontend.
And then we got smarter and was like,
now we have single page applications.
Maybe we should host our single
page application on a CDN.
And then we have an API and JSON server.
So that's like level two.
Well now, we're coming back to this whole
monolith thing where it's like, well,
what if we just want
everything in one app?
But the backend architecture is different.
So although we're back now
to having a backend and
a frontend in the same application,
the way that they're deployed and
the way they're used in architecture that
defines them is completely different than
having a constantly running server
that's serving static assets.
Now we still are using a CDN,
now we're using serverless functions but
we get the benefit of having
them both live side by side.
And in the case of Next.js,
we get the benefit of writing backend
code and a frontend component.
It's gonna get pretty crazy here,
so the lines are gonna get blurrier
when we're on the frontend and
when we're on the backend because
there's no definite line between them.
So it's gonna get really blurry which
is actually a feature of Next.js so
I kind of love that.
And you'll see what I'm
talking about very soon.
So we got the pages directory here, we got
our public stuff that's where you can put
assets like images, things like that.
Styles folder,
we won't be using styles folder here,
we'll be styling our components
completely different.
And then everything else is just
configuration so nothing special here.
So if we head over to the link
that I sent you for that notion,
there should be some, if you scroll
down to where it says configs,
there should be some stuff here to copy
and paste for your configuration files.
So this is just my eslint
configuration that I use.
I put this here because I
felt like it'd be helpful.
I spent so many years, months, weeks,
just trying to figure out a really good
eslint setup for different projects.
So I went ahead and put the one
that I use to create this app here.
So feel free to copy this one.
And add this to your eslint config and
then I'm going to go over to our code.
There's a eslint, rc.json.
I'm actually just gonna rename
mine to be eslintrc.js and
not JSON because I don't like writing
JSON if I can write JavaScript.
So I'm just gonna write JavaScript and
save, and
paste that in to a module exports,
so we are good there.
And then the next thing is
I want to use TypeScript,
so there's a tsconfig here.
Next.js is actually really cool is
that it'll detect TypeScript for
us it'll set up a tsconfig, I'm actually
just gonna wait before I paste that and
we'll get to that stuff later.
So I'm not gonna paste
the tsconfig stuff yet but
I am going to take this babelrc file and
paste that over.
So we're gonna make
a new file on the route,
call it .babelrc with no file extension,
and I'm gonna paste that in there.
This is actually to help us with
a pretty nuanced, I wouldn't say bug,
but there's an issue with parsing
JSON inside of these data functions
inside of Next.js when it comes
to things like date objects or
circular things like that,
the JSON parser freaks out.
This fixes it so
it's just something to fix a bug that
we will definitely run into later.
When we get there I'll remind
you of why we did this.
You'll see why we did that.
And then the next thing is to
get to someone asked earlier,
what are all the dependencies
that we're using.
Here they are,
here are all the dependencies that
we are using in this project.
So I'm actually just gonna go ahead and
copy all of these dependencies here,
there we go.
I feel like it'd be much easier to copy
and put these in a package JSON than into
NPM install all these in a terminal,
so that can get really tedious.
So I'm gonna copy those,
put them in a package JSON,
go down to our dependencies objects here,
and I'm just gonna hit paste.
We'll definitely have duplicates with
the Next.js and the React and stuff.
So I'm just gonna delete the duplicates,
there we go.
Make sure it's formatted as JSON,
make sure your commas are good and
stuff like that.
And then we also have the same thing for
our dev dependencies.
So tons of dev dependencies here mostly
for the eslint stuff but we're gonna copy
some of that as well and paste those
in the dev dependencies like so.
There we go.
So once you get all of that, you should
be able to go back to your terminal.
I'm gonna open up a new terminal actually,
and I'm gonna go back into my code here.
And you should just be able to type
in NPM install or NPM I for short.
And I should read the package.json and
just install all the stuff
that you pasted in there.
So probably gonna take a minute
because it's a lot of dependencies.
Any questions so far?
>> I don't know if it's
just my machine thing but
because I have Yarn installed
it defaulted to that.
And so running NPM has given me issues but
running Yarn is working.
I just thought I bring that up,
it's running.
>> Yeah, if you're using Yarn,
it'll still read the package JSON.
So if you're using Yarn or if you prefer
Yarn, you should just be able to do
Yarn install and it should give
you the same effect as well.
We're not using anything
unique to NPM in this course.
So everything that we're doing, every
time you see me run a command with NPM,
you can substitute that with Yarn and
it should work exactly the same.
So, now that we have all of this,
the next thing that I want to
do is set up the TypeScript.
So the easiest way to do that actually is
I'm just gonna go to the pages directory,
see where it says, index.js.
I'm just gonna change that to index.tsx,
if you don't know what the tsx
extension is, it's just TypeScript JSX,
that's what the extension is.
That's just an extension that they came up
with, but it's basically TypeScript JSX
which today is just a TypeScript file,
we're literally only using TypeScript.
Honestly, it's for
the database types that we get for free.
We will not be making custom types and
things like that.
So if you're like, my God,
I don't know TypeScript, that's fine.
That's not a requirement for this course.
We're just using the latest tsx features
and getting some nice code completion
with some of the database
tooling that we're gonna get.
Other than that, we will pretty much be
opting out of all things type related, so
no need to be a TypeScript expert here.
I'm also gonna change this
appjs to app.tsx as well.
And again, the process that I've walked
you through is literally how I get
started with a project.
I literally do these exact same steps.
The only thing different will be instead
of pasting in a bag of dependencies
in the package JSON, I would have just
said NPM install inside of a terminal,
that's it.
Everything else is exactly the same,
I do this stuff all the time.
So once we have that,
what you can do is you can stop
the server if it's already running.
And if you go try to run it again with
NPM run dev, it's gonna say, hey,
we detected TypeScript in your project.
And we created a tsconfig file for
you, right?
It's pretty awesome,
Next.js is pretty cool.
So I'm gonna stop that again.
Gonna go back to the notes.
I'm gonna scroll up to that tsconfig
that I said don't touch yet.
And now I'm gonna grab it and
put it in there.
Although, I do think it's
the same thing that they created.
I don't think I actually changed anything.
But just to be safe, I'm gonna copy and
paste it anyway because I'm
pretty sure it's the same thing.
So I'm gonna go to my tsconfig,
copy and paste that and yeah,
this was definitely the same.
Mark?
>> Can you explain the difference
between _app.jsx and index?
>> Yeah, absolutely.
So it's an Next.js convention.
The way that this works in Next.js is that
anything in the pages folder is gonna get
a route associated with it on a router.
So we don't actually have to
configure a router here in Next.js.
Is gonna be based off the file
names inside the pages folder.
So in this case, we have an index.tsx
that's gonna create a route for slash,
the route of our app.
Underscore app basically means, hey,
I don't want a route to be created.
And in this case underscore app
as far as Next.js concerned,
it's gonna be the route
of our application.
So if you were creating a React app today,
and you had probably like an index file or
app file where you bootstrapped
your React app to the DOM,
that's what underscore app is.
This is where you would have done that,
except you don't actually
have to bootstrap it to the DOM,
Next.js does that for you.
But this is the route of your application.
It's gonna be pretty much the entry
point to every page on a component or
every page on your app.
Underscore just means,
don't make a route for this.
If I got rid of the underscore, Next.js
would actually make a route called slash
app and it will load that component,
which is not what we want here.
This is the entry to our application where
it's like every component here that I'm
highlighting would be a page.
It all gets rendered inside of this app.
It's a convention.
Again, you can learn more about that
in the next year's course that I taught
earlier, and
it goes over a lot of stuff in detail.
There are some more conventions that we'll
be doing and I'll talk about them as we do
them because newer things have come
out since I taught that course.
So Next.js is evolving.
Max is asking about the red
underline stuff here.
So this is basically my editor
freaking out because I'm violating
my own eslint rules.
So it's like, you need to fix this.
I can fix it manually or
I can use something called prettier that
will just fix it for me automatically.
But basically, this one is just an error
function, so I'll just do that,
And then, it wants to exports,
default, home.
And it wants to be nice, there we go.
So it's just my editor freaking out
about not having error functions.
So that's the eslint, that's my own
eslint config I guess it's doing its job.